==== PAGE 1 ====
In Reverie Together: Ten Years of Mathematical
Discovery with a Machine Collaborator
Randy Davila∗
RelationalAI
Berkeley California, 94704
randy.davila@relational.ai
Boris Brimkov
Department of Mathematics,
Statistics, and Physics
Slippery Rock University
boris.brimkov@sru.edu
Ryan Pepper
Department of Mathematics and Statistics
University of Houston–Downtown
Houston, Tx 77005
pepperr@uhd.edu
Abstract
We present four open conjectures in graph theory generated by the automated
conjecturing system TxGraffiti. Each conjecture is concise, grounded in natural
graph invariants, and empirically validated across hundreds of graphs. Despite
extensive effort, these statements remain unresolved—defying both proof and
counterexample. They are not only mathematical challenges but creative expres-
sions—born of symbolic pattern recognition and mathematician-defined heuristics,
refined through years of human dialogue, and now offered back to the community
as collaborative artifacts. These conjectures invite not only formal proof, but also
reflection on how machines can evoke wonder, spark curiosity, and contribute to
the raw material of discovery. By highlighting these problems, we aim to inspire
both human mathematicians and AI systems to engage with them—not only to
solve them, but to reflect on what it means when machines participate meaningfully
in the creative process of mathematical thought.
1
Introduction
To build and evaluate AI systems that aim to contribute meaningfully to mathematics, whether by
assisting human researchers or generating ideas autonomously, we must ground them in problems
that are both conceptually natural and technically challenging. Yet most existing benchmarks in
formal reasoning focus narrowly on proof verification, often drawing from known theorems or
synthetic exercises. While valuable, such tasks do not reflect the generative and creative nature of
mathematical conjecture. Indeed, mathematical conjecturing challenges AI systems to move beyond
verification, requiring them instead to identify novel, plausible, and often beautiful statements that
capture structural truths. It is a task that blends symbolic reasoning with empirical search, and
abstraction with intuition and creativity.
Developed nearly a decade ago, the TxGraffiti system is an automated conjecturing frame-
work designed to propose mathematical conjectures in the form of inequalities and equalities in
discrete mathematics, especially graph theory. Inspired by earlier systems such as Fajtlowicz’s
GraffitiFajtlowicz [1988, 1990], DeLaViña [2005b] and DeLaViña’s Graffiti.pc DeLaViña
∗Supported in part by RelationalAI, including travel funding to present this and related work.
Preprint.
arXiv:2507.17780v1  [cs.DM]  23 Jul 2025

==== PAGE 2 ====
[2005a], TxGraffiti operates on precomputed tabular data of graph invariants and searches for
empirically valid and structurally meaningful inequalities. Although it does not attempt formal proofs,
the system uses optimization routines and heuristic filters to identify conjectures that are both novel
and stronger than similar inequalities. Since its inception, TxGraffiti has contributed to multiple
mathematical publications Davila and Henning [2019, 2020, 2021], Caro et al. [2022b,a], Brimkov
et al. [2024], the first author’s dissertation Davila [2019], and several more works currently under
review Davila et al. [(accepted with revisions], Davila [2024a], Schuerger et al. [2024]. These include
results in graph domination, zero forcing, matchings, and independence, many of which are based on
conjectures first proposed by the system.
Currently, there are three forms of TxGraffiti. The first is the ever evolving internal research
system, which continues to produce the most sophisticated and compelling conjectures. The second
is the interactive website Davila [2025], which runs a static snapshot of the system as it existed in
2023. The third is the official TxGraffiti Python package, a pip-installable library that exposes
the core functionality of the system, including data-driven conjecture generation, heuristic filters,
and formal output in languages such as Lean, for use in research and experimentation Davila and
Eddy [2025]. The system was also the subject of an invited talk at Harvard’s Center of Mathematical
Sciences and Applications (CMSA), where it was presented as part of a broader conversation on
AI-assisted discovery in mathematics; the talk is available on YouTube.2
1.1
The role of mathematicians in the loop
The development of TxGraffiti and the conjectures presented in this work were not achieved
in isolation. From its earliest days, the system has relied on continued collaboration with human
mathematicians—both as guides in its design and as critical evaluators of its output. Mathematicians
have played an essential role not only in verifying or refuting conjectures, but in shaping the very
criteria by which the system identifies mathematical relevance.
Throughout the lifetime of TxGraffiti, several close collaborators have served as active mathemati-
cal responders to new ideas—frequently testing conjectures, offering counterexamples, and providing
critical feedback that helped filter or refine the system’s outputs. In particular, long-term collaborators
have worked on dozens (likely hundreds) of conjectures originating from the program, developing
results and identifying structural patterns. More recently, additional mathematicians have joined the
group that receives notifications about new developments and conjectures.
These collaborations have repeatedly exposed subtle flaws, revealed unexpected generalizations,
provided counter-examples, and confirmed sharpness in structured families. Far from being passive
validators, the mathematicians collaborating on TxGraffiti have shaped the trajectory of the system.
In this way, human insight is not merely a supplement to automation—it is the driving force. If
AI is to meaningfully participate in mathematics, then it must do so in concert with the human
community—not merely automating tasks, but learning from the iterative, collaborative, and creative
spirit that defines mathematical discovery; it must be part of our conversations over coffee and out at
the pub. It must conjecture wildly, but with motivation grounded in experience.
Table 1 lists a representative sample of theorems that trace their origins directly to TxGraffiti.
Each row records (i) the original machine-generated inequality, (ii) the graph family on which the
proof was obtained, and (iii) the authors and venue in which the result was published. The breadth of
topics—domination, zero forcing, matchings, and saturation numbers—illustrates that the system’s
hypotheses are not confined to a single corner of graph theory. Equally important, the published
proofs often required new structural insights, confirming that the machine’s conjectures did not
merely repackage known techniques but pointed to genuinely unexplored territory.
Several patterns emerge. First, many proofs exploit the same extremal graphs that TxGraffiti
flagged as sharp examples, underscoring the value of the machine’s empirical ranking. Second,
successful results often appear first for highly structured families (e.g., cubic or claw-free graphs) and
later extend to broader classes—a progression that mirrors human problem-solving strategies. Finally,
the collaborative pipeline has begun to close the loop: new theorems feed back into the system as
known results, refining subsequent conjecture searches.
2https://youtu.be/2tmmafZxBIw?si=nU9fcVOgnToieHfE
2

==== PAGE 3 ====
Table 1: Conjectures Generated by the System and Later Proven in Peer-Reviewed Work
Conjecture
Graph Family
Reference
α(G) ≤µ(G)
regular graphs
Caro et al. [2022b]
Z(G) ≤β(G)
claw-free graphs
Brimkov et al. [2024]
α(G) ≤3
2γt(G)
cubic graphs
Caro et al. [2022a]
α(G) ≤γ2(G)
claw-free graphs
Caro et al. [2022a]
γe(G) ≥3
5µ(G)
cubic graphs
Caro et al. [2022a]
Z(G) ≤2γ(G)
cubic graphs G ̸∼= K4
Davila and Henning [2021]
Zt(G) ≤3
2γt(G)
cubic graphs G ̸∼= K3,3
Davila and Henning [2019]
Z(G) ≤γ(G) + 2
cubic claw-free graphs
Davila [2024a]
Z(G) = Z+(G)
claw-free graphs
Davila et al. [(accepted with revisions]
Taken together, these outcomes demonstrate that machine-initiated conjecturing can produce not only
stimulating open problems but also verifiable advances in mathematics—advances that would likely
have remained hidden without the partnership of human insight and artificial exploration.
1.2
Toward fully automated discovery
While human collaboration has been essential to the development and refinement of TxGraffiti,
the author of TxGraffiti believes that the process itself—conjecture, evaluation, proof, and refuta-
tion—can, and eventually should, be fully automated. In fact, the cycle by which these conjectures
emerged and evolved over the past decade offers a blueprint for what such automation might look
like.
We envision a constellation of interacting AI agents, each with a distinct role: the conjecturer (like
TxGraffiti, or its evolving form, the Optimist Davila [2024b]) generates symbolic mathematical
statements; the prover translates these into formal systems such as Lean and attempts rigorous verifica-
tion; and the counterexampler—a critical agent we call the Pessimist—searches for counterexamples
or holes in both conjectures and proofs Davila [2024b]. This architecture mirrors the collaborative
process that has defined the last ten years of TxGraffiti’s output and its resulting publications. The
difference is that the cycle could, in principle, be completed without human intervention. humans to
complete the cycle.
To build such a system is not to remove the mathematician from the loop, but to recognize that
much of the actual work done over the last decade—the formulation of conjectures, the search
for counterexamples, and even the construction of formal proofs—appears increasingly feasible to
automate. The key behaviors of mathematical discovery can be distilled into a system of interacting
computational agents, each with its own purpose: generating, testing, proving, and refuting. If we
can automate the processes that have driven this project forward since its inception, we open the
door to a new kind of mathematics—one that is recursive, collaborative, and no longer limited by
human speed or memory. In this way, the conjectures of TxGraffiti are more than mathematical
problems—they are artifacts of a shared creative process between humans and machines, pointing
toward a future in which artificial agents participate meaningfully in the pursuit of mathematical
knowledge. In the sections that follow, we highlight four open problems that exemplify this shared
reasoning process—each a persistent and as-yet-unresolved challenge posed by a machine.
2
Open conjectures of TxGraffiti (2016–2025)
The following conjectures were selected from among hundreds generated by TxGraffiti over the
past decade. Each was chosen for its structural appeal, empirical sharpness, and resistance to proof or
disproof by human mathematicians. Although machine-generated, these statements exhibit properties
commonly associated with meaningful open problems: they are simple to state, broadly validated
across structured families, and frequently sharp, holding with equality on nontrivial classes of graphs.
In what follows, we present four such conjectures, organized chronologically from earliest to latest.
3

==== PAGE 4 ====
2.1
A surprising lower bound on independence
The earliest conjectures produced by TxGraffiti emerged from modest experiments—simple data-
driven sessions guided only by basic heuristics. One particularly striking conjecture arose while
examining relationships between the independence number and two degree-sequence-based invariants:
the annihilation number and the residue. Though the conjecture was generated without optimization
or modern heuristic filtering, it has persisted as one of the most intriguing and difficult problems to
arise from the system.
Let G be a finite, simple, undirected graph with vertex degrees arranged in nonincreasing order
d1 ≥d2 ≥· · · ≥dn, where n = |V (G)| and m = |E(G)|. The annihilation number of G,
denoted a(G), is defined by a(G) = max {j : dn−j+1 + dn−j+2 + · · · + dn ≤m}. Originally
introduced by Pepper [2004, 2009], the annihilation number provides a computable upper bound
for the independence number α(G); that is, α(G) ≤a(G), and belongs to a broader family of
degree-sequence invariants that seek structural insight through optimizations over vertex degrees Caro
and Pepper [2014].
A third invariant introduced by Fajtlowicz Fajtlowicz [1988], called the residue R(G), is computed
using the classical Havel–Hakimi process rather than by direct optimization. The Havel–Hakimi
process entails repeatedly sorting a given integer sequence in decreasing order, removing the largest
element a1, and subtracting 1 from the next a1 elements. The residue is defined as the number of
zeros in the final sequence produced by the iterative application of the Havel–Hakimi process when
starting from the degree sequence of G. The Havel–Hakimi Theorem Hakimi [1962], Havel [1955]
states that a sequence is graphic if and only if this process terminates in all zeros. Fajtlowicz, using
his automated conjecturing program Graffiti Fajtlowicz [1990], DeLaViña [2005b], announced
the conjecture α(G) ≥R(G), a statement later proven in Favaron et al. [1991], and independently
in Griggs and Kleitman [1999], Triesch [1996].
The following open conjecture arose during the earliest sessions of what would evolve into the
modern TxGraffiti system. At the time, candidate inequalities were ranked solely by sharpness,
measured as the number of graphs in the dataset for which the inequality held with equality. Among
these early outputs, the following expression stood out—not only for combining two fundamentally
disparate bounds on the independence number, together with the maximum vertex degree ∆(G), to
produce a third bound, but also for the attention it garnered when shared with colleagues.
Conjecture 1 (TxGraffiti – Open Since 2016). If G is a nontrivial connected graph, then α(G) ≥
a(G)+R(G)
∆(G)
, and this bound is sharp.
If G is regular and bipartite, then a(G)+R(G)
∆(G)
< n
2 , whenever ∆(G) ≥2. Moreover, α(G) ≥n/2,
since G is bipartite. Thus, Conjecture 1 holds for regular bipartite graphs. Next, recall that every
König-Egerváry graph G of order n satisfies α(G) + µ(G) = n. Furthermore, for cubic graphs G of
order n, where n is a multiple of four, it is true that α(G) ≥n/4, while a(G) = n/2, R(G) = n/4,
and ∆= 3. Thus, Conjecture 1 also holds for cubic König-Egerváry graphs.
2.2
The (α, Z)-conjecture
Let G be a finite, simple, undirected graph. The zero forcing color change rule operates on a blue-
and-white coloring of the vertices of G: at each discrete time step, a blue vertex u with exactly
one white neighbor v may force v to become blue. If repeating this process iteratively results in all
vertices eventually becoming blue, then the initial set of blue vertices is a zero forcing set of G. The
minimum cardinality of this set is the zero forcing number, denoted Z(G). Originally introduced in
the context of bounding the minimum rank of matrices associated with graphs Barioli et al. [2008],
the zero forcing number has since become a widely studied invariant with connections to linear
algebra, control theory, and graph propagation models Hogben et al. [2022].
The following conjecture was generated using a linear programming-based approach applied to cubic
graphs. Among numerous candidate inequalities compared using a sharpness-based ranking heuristic,
this inequality relating the zero forcing number and independence number consistently ranked highly
across structured families.
Conjecture 2 (TxGraffiti – Open Since 2017). If G ̸∼= K4 is a connected graph with ∆(G) ≤3, then
Z(G) ≤α(G) + 1, and this bound is sharp.
4

==== PAGE 5 ====
We note that G ̸∼= K4 is necessary in the statement of Conjecture 2 since Z(K4) = 3 and α(Kn) = 1.
This conjecture has received considerable attention. For example, it has been proven—and in some
cases strengthened—under additional structural assumptions, such as when G is claw-free Davila and
Henning [2020], Davila [2019], He et al. [2024], Schuerger et al. [2024]. It has also been shown to
hold with equality on an infinite family of nontrivial constructions, including cubic trees modified by
appending specific subgraphs at the leaves Schuerger et al. [2024].
2.3
A mirror conjecture on independent domination and maximal matchings
The independent domination number of a graph G, denoted i(G), is the minimum cardinality of
a maximal independent set—that is, an independent set that cannot be extended by including any
additional vertex. A related edge-based invariant is µ∗(G), the minimum cardinality of a maximal
matching, meaning a matching that cannot be extended by adding more edges.
The following conjecture, generated by a later version of TxGraffiti incorporating structural
hypothesis filters and improved heuristic scoring, proposes a simple inequality between these two
saturation-based parameters.
Conjecture 3 (TxGraffiti – Open Since 2020). If G is an r-regular graph G with r > 0, then
i(G) ≤µ∗(G), and this bound is sharp.
This conjecture parallels the inequality α(G) ≤µ(G) for regular graphs, where α(G) denotes the
independence number and µ(G) the matching number. That result, which originated from an earlier
TxGraffiti conjecture and was later proved and generalized in Caro et al. [2022b,a], highlights a
symmetry between vertex- and edge-based packing parameters. In the present conjecture, a similar
structure emerges between their saturation analogues: while α(G) and µ(G) capture maximum-size
packings, the pair i(G) and µ∗(G) measure minimum-maximal saturated structures.
The requirement that G is r-regular for r > 0 is necessary in the statement of Conjecture 3, since, for
example, it fails on binary star graphs. Moreover, the statement is clearly true for 2-regular graphs,
and so, the conjecture is only open for r-regular graphs with r ≥3.
2.4
Harmonic index versus minimal maximal matching
Among the more conceptually surprising outputs of TxGraffiti is the following conjecture linking
a continuous degree-based invariant to a discrete edge-based saturation parameter. Specifically, it
states that for any nontrivial connected graph, the size of a smallest maximal matching is bounded
above by the graph’s harmonic index.
Conjecture 4 (TxGraffiti – Open Since 2023). If G is a nontrivial connected graph, then µ∗(G) ≤
H(G), and this bound is sharp.
The harmonic index H(G) was introduced by Fajtlowicz in 1987 through the original Graffiti
system, and later found independent relevance in chemical graph theory, where it correlates with
molecular branching and π-electron energy of benzenoid hydrocarbons Ili´c and Stevanovi´c [2011].
The harmonic index is defined as H(G) = P
{u,v}∈E(G)
2
d(u)+d(v). As a degree-sensitive topological
index, it belongs to a broader family of invariants with continuous behavior, often studied in extremal
settings on graphs of fixed order or degree sum Du and Zhou [2013]. Despite this analytic and
chemical significance, few known results link the harmonic index to saturation-based or combinatorial
matching parameters.
By contrast, µ∗(G) is a discrete invariant measuring the minimum cardinality of a maximal matching
in G—a matching that cannot be extended by adding any further edges. This parameter is sometimes
referred to as the saturation number Tavakoli and Samadi [2022], and is tightly connected to
domination theory: it satisfies the identity µ∗(G) = i(L(G)), where i(L(G)) is the independent
domination number of the line graph of G. This identity connects the conjecture to structural questions
involving transformations of graphs under the line graph operation. Notably, one of the few bounds
known on µ∗(G) was originally conjectured by the Graffiti.pc system DeLaViña et al. [2007].
Figure 1 illustrates the relationship between µ∗(G) and H(G) across 335 simple connected graphs in
the TxGraffiti dataset. Each point corresponds to a graph, with H(G) on the horizontal axis and
µ∗(G) on the vertical. All data points lie on or below the red dashed line H(G) = µ∗(G). Several
equality cases shown in green further suggest that the inequality is sharp on structured families.
5

==== PAGE 6 ====
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
* (G)
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
H(G)
TxGraffiti Conjecture: MinMax Matching vs. Harmonic Index
Graphs
* (G) = H(G)
Equality cases
Figure 1: Empirical validation of the conjectured inequality µ∗(G) ≤H(G) on the TxGraffiti
graph dataset. Green markers indicate equality cases.
3
Conclusion
The four open problems presented in this paper represent the most enduring and conceptually rich
conjectures generated by TxGraffiti over the past decade. While TxGraffiti has produced
hundreds of conjectures, these remain among the most stubborn and compelling. As such, we believe
these conjectures offer something rare in the landscape of AI and mathematics. Unlike traditional
benchmarks for automated theorem provers which are typically derived from established results or
handcrafted by humans, these conjectures arose autonomously from a system designed to detect
mathematical patterns. They also stand as artifacts of a creative process that, while initiated by a
machine, has meaningfully engaged and challenged human mathematicians.
In addition to each conjecture, TxGraffiti retains the collection of sharp examples—graphs for
which the inequality holds with equality. These extremal cases often illuminate the structural
boundaries of a conjecture and can serve as valuable input for automated reasoning. By analyzing
common features among the sharp examples, a prover may extract inductive patterns, generate
supporting lemmas, or reduce the search space for formal proof attempts. As such, these examples
not only enhance the interpretability of each conjecture, but also strengthen their utility as hard targets
for symbolic AI.
Because each conjecture involves well-defined graph invariants and explicit structural hypotheses,
they can be systematically formalized in proof assistants such as Lean. See Appendix A for the
conjectures presented in this paper, translated into Lean 4 by TxGraffiti. This opens the door to
scalable evaluation pipelines in which conjecture generation, formalization, and proof search are
conducted in a closed loop. In this light, the problems presented here are not merely mathematical
curiosities, but early evidence of a deeper integration between machine and human reasoning—where
discovery becomes a shared endeavor, and creativity in mathematics takes on new collaborative
forms.
A
Lean 4 statements of conjectures presented in this work
Listing 1: Lean4 Conjectures.
theorem conjecture_one (G : SimpleGraph V)
(h1 : connected G)
6

==== PAGE 7 ====
(h2 : order G ≥1) : independence_number G ≥((annihilation_number G +
residue G) / max_degree G) :=
sorry
theorem conjecture_two (G : SimpleGraph V)
(h1 : connected G)
(h2 : max_degree G = min_degree G)
(h3 : max_degree G = 3)
(h4 : G ̸= K4) : zero_forcing_number G ≤independence_number G + 1 :=
sorry
theorem conjecture_three (G : SimpleGraph V)
(h1 : connected G)
(h2 : max_degree G = min_degree G)
(h3 : min_degree G ≥1)
(h4 : order G ≥1) : independent_domination_number G ≤
min_maximal_matching_number G :=
sorry
theorem conjecture_four (G : SimpleGraph V)
(h1 : connected G)
(h2 : order G ≥1) : min_maximal_matching_number G ≤harmonic_index G :=
sorry
References
F. Barioli, W. Barrett, S. Butler, S. M Cioab˘a, D. Cvetkovi´c, S. M. Fallat, C. Godsil, W. Haemers,
L. Hogben, R. Mikkelson, S. Narayan, O. Pryporova, I. Sciriha, W. So, D. Stevanovi´c, H. van der
Holst, K. Vander Meulen, and A. Wangsness Wehe. Zero forcing sets and the minimum rank of
graphs. Linear Algebra Appl., 428(7):1628–1648, 2008.
B. Brimkov, R. Davila, H. Schuerger, and M. Young. On a conjecture of TxGraffiti: Relating zero
forcing and vertex covers in graphs. Discrete Appl. Math., 359:290–302, 2024. doi: 10.1016/j.
dam.2023.11.009.
Y. Caro and R. Pepper. Degree sequence index strategy. Australas. J. Comb., 59(1):1–23, 2014.
Y. Caro, R. Davila, M. A. Henning, and R. Pepper. Conjectures of TxGraffiti: Independence,
domination, and matchings. Australas. J. Comb, 84(2):258–274, 2022a.
Y. Caro, R. Davila, and R. Pepper. New results relating independence and matchings. Discuss. Math.
Graph Theory, 42(3):921–935, 2022b. doi: 10.7151/dmgt.2353.
R. Davila. Total and Zero Forcing in Graphs. PhD Dissertation, University of Johannesburg, 2019.
R. Davila. Another conjecture of TxGraffiti concerning zero forcing and domination in graphs. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2406.19231, 2024a. https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.19231.
R. Davila.
The optimist: Towards fully automated graph theory research.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2411.09158, 2024b.
R. Davila. TxGraffiti: Interactive conjecturing website. https://txgraffiti.streamlit.app,
2025. Accessed: July 20, 2025.
R. Davila and J. Eddy. TxGraffiti: A python package for automated mathematical conjecturing.
https://pypi.org/project/txgraffiti, 2025. Version 0.4.1.
R. Davila and M. A. Henning. Total forcing versus total domination in cubic graphs. Applied
Mathematics and Computation, 354:385–395, 2019. doi: 10.1016/j.amc.2019.02.020.
R. Davila and M. A. Henning. Zero forcing in claw-free cubic graphs. Bull. Malays. Math. Sci. Soc.,
43:673–688, 2020. doi: 10.1007/s40840-019-00800-w.
7

==== PAGE 8 ====
R. Davila and M. A. Henning. Relating zero forcing and domination in cubic graphs. J. Comb.
Optim., 41:553–577, 2021. doi: 10.1007/s10878-020-00573-5.
R. Davila, H. Schuerger, and B. Small. A characterization of claw-free graphs using zero forcing
invariants. J. Graph Theory, (accepted with revisions) 2025. arXiv preprint at https://doi.
org/10.48550/arXiv.2412.03463.
E. DeLaViña. Graffiti.pc: A variant of Graffiti. In Graphs and Discovery, DIMACS Ser. Discret.
Math. Theor. Comput. Sci., volume 69, pages 71–79, Providence, RI, 2005a. Amer. Math. Soc.
E. DeLaViña. Some history of the development of graffiti. In Graphs and Discovery, DIMACS Ser.
Discret. Math. Theor. Comput. Sci., volume 69, pages 81–118, Providence, RI, 2005b. Amer. Math.
Soc.
E. DeLaViña, Q. Liu, R. Pepper, B. Waller, and D. B. West. Some conjectures of Graffiti.pc on total
domination. Congr. Numer., 185:pp. 81–95, 2007.
Z. Du and B. Zhou. Sharp bounds for the harmonic index of graphs. Applied Mathematics Letters, 26
(5):464–467, 2013.
S. Fajtlowicz. On the conjectures of Graffiti III. Congr. Numer., 66:23–32, 1988.
S. Fajtlowicz. On conjectures of Graffiti IV. Congr. Numer., pages 231–240, 1990.
O. Favaron, M. Mahéo, and J.-F. Saclé. On the residue of a graph. J. Graph Theory, 15:39–64, 1991.
J. R. Griggs and D. J. Kleitman. Independence and the havel–hakimi residue. Discrete Math., 127:
241–249, 1999.
S. L. Hakimi. On the realizability of a set of integers as degrees of the vertices of a linear graph, i.
SIAM J. Appl. Math., 10:496–506, 1962.
V. Havel. A remark on the existence of finite graphs. Casopis Pest. Mat., 80:477–480, 1955. (in
Czech).
M. He, H. Li, N. Song, and S. Ji. The zero forcing number of claw-free cubic graphs. Discrete Appl.
Math., 359:321–330, 2024. ISSN 0166-218X. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dam.2024.08.011.
URL https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166218X24003639.
L. Hogben, J. C.-H. Lin, and B. L. Shader. Inverse Problems and Zero Forcing for Graphs, volume
270 of Mathematical Surveys and Monographs. American Mathematical Society, 2022. ISBN
978-1-4704-6655-8. URL https://bookstore.ams.org/surv-270.
A. Ili´c and D. Stevanovi´c. On the harmonic index of graphs. MATCH Commun. Math. Comput.
Chem., 65(3):731–744, 2011.
R. Pepper. Bounding the independence number of a graph using its annihilation number. Bull. Inst.
Combin. Appl., 41:89–94, 2004.
R. Pepper. On the annihilation number of a graph. In Proceedings of the 15th American Conference
on Applied Mathematics (ACAM), volume 1, pages 217–220. WSEAS, 2009.
H. Schuerger, N. Warnberg, and M. Young. Zero forcing and vertex independence number on
cubic and subcubic graphs, 2024. URL https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2410.21724.
arXiv:2410.21724 [math.CO].
M. Tavakoli and B. Samadi. On the saturation number of graphs and their line graphs. Util. Math.,
119:241–256, 2022.
E. Triesch. Degree sequences of graphs and dominance order. J. Graph Theory, 22:89–93, 1996.
8
